---
title: 5.2 Opinions on Moral Issues
tag: beyond feelings
---
### Opinions on Moral Issues
The notion that everyone is entitled to his or her opinion is especially strong in the area of morality.

According to this notion, if you believe a particular behavior is immoral and I believe it is moral, even noble, we are both right. Your view is “right for you” and mine is “right for me.”

Questions of right and wrong are presumed to be completely **subjective** and **personal**.

*This popular perspective* may seem eminently **sensible** and **broad-minded**, but it is utterly shallow.

Have you ever heard anyone claim that burglary, spousal abuse, or rape is morally acceptable for those who believe it is?

Virtually every professional organization and every corporation has a code of ethics that specifies the behaviors that are required or forbidden.

All these codes and legal systems don’t appear out of thin air. **They are the products** of moral judgment, the *same* mental activity individuals use in deciding everyday issues of right and wrong. And **they** are subject to the *same* limitations and imperfections. Opinions about moral issues, like other opinions, may be **correct** or **incorrect**.
第一个same是针对moral judgment
第二个same是针对organization and corporation的

*Are there criteria we can use to increase the chance that our moral judgments will be correct?* 

Definitely. The most important criteria are **obligations**, **ideals**, and **consequences**.
**1. Obligations**
>* Obligations are *restrictions* on behavior, *demands* that we do or avoid doing something.
> * The most obvious kinds of obligations are formal agreements such as contracts.
> * Others include professional and business obligations, and obligations of friendship and citizenship.
> * When two or more obligations conflict, the most important one should take precedence.

**2. Ideals**
> * In the general sense, ideals are **notions of excellence**, **goals** that bring greater harmony within ourselves and with others.
> * In ethics they are also specific concepts that help us **maintain respect** for persons.
> * Some noteworthy examples of ideals are **honesty**, **integrity**, **justice**, and **fairness**.
> * When two or more ideals conflict in a given situation, the most important one should be given precedence.

**3. Consequences**
> * Consequences are the beneficial and/or harmful **results** of an action that affect *both* the person performing that action *and* other people.
> * Any examination of consequences should consider the various kinds: personal and societal; physical and emotional; immediate and eventual; intended and unintended; obvious and subtle; and possible, probable, and certain.
> * Actions that achieve beneficial consequences should be preferred over those that do harm.

Whenever the consequences are mixed (some beneficial, others harmful), the preferred action is the one that achieves the greater good or the lesser evil.

