###1. Time Is Your Most Valuable and Scarcest Resource
时间是你最有价值和最稀缺的资源
时间最宝贵，也最公平，每天就是1440分钟。

### 2. “Identify Your Most Important Task” and Do It First
确定“最重要的任务”并优先处理

每天将要完成的短期目标确定下来，然后分解成可衡量的步骤，一步一步完成“最重要的任务”。
Successful people focus on their top priority, long-term goals and identify meaningful, **specific short-term goals they must accomplish first**. *Breaking* short-term goals *down* into measurable steps guides high achievers to their “**most important tasks**” (MIT). They concentrate on completing all or part of their MITs before they go on to other activities.

### 3. Work from Your Calendar, Not a To-Do List
根据日程工作，而不是待办事项

如果你真的想完成某一件是，那就确定哪一天和什么时候并留出多少时间去做。
Most successful CEOs rely on strictly scheduled calendars. Sticking to a schedule allows time for you to focus first on your MITs. 
Deciding what tasks deserve calendar space or blocks of time keeps you from wasting time. Entrepreneurs report that tightly organized calendars reduce stress.

### 4. To Overcome Procrastination, “Beat Your Future Self”
“打败未来的你”-克服拖延症

Instead of delaying, try these “procrastination busters”:
1) 不要等会去做，就现在
**Do now what you promise you’ll do later** – Defeating procrastination means doing what you should do right this minute instead of trusting some future version of yourself “to do the right thing” later. To succeed, be better now.

2)  想想这件事做完做好的成就
**For motivation, imagine your results** – Whether finishing a task will give you pleasure or failing to get it done will cause you pain, imagine the outcome of your actions.

3)  与人分担，对他人负责
**Share the burden** – Being responsible to someone else who shares your goal, like a fellow jogger, creates an emotional commitment. Enlist an “accountability partner.”

4)  奖励和惩罚自己
**Grab the carrot; avoid the stick** – The promise of a future reward lures some people, but often the fear of punishment works better. Devising a personal non-completion penalty in the form of a charitable contribution can turn your lack into a community gain.

5)  以你希望成为的人为榜样去规范自己的行为
**Behave like the person you hope to become** – Adopt the behaviors of your ideal self to anchor your values and make a firmer commitment to them. Even going through the motions will help you achieve your personal best.

6)  拥抱不完美
**Embrace the imperfect** – The desire for perfection may intimidate you into inaction. Acknowledging imperfect work is a first step to easing the stress that keeps you from starting at all. “Settle for good enough;” you can always improve your output later.

### 5. There Will Always Be More to Do
总是还有更多的事情要做

成功人士接纳自己的局限性。
“Successful people take immediate action on almost every item they encounter. They know that to be efficient, they want to expend the least possible amount of time and mental energy processing things.”

### 6. Always Carry a Notebook 
永远随身携带一个笔记本
手写记录比打字有更加积极，准确的回忆。

### 7. Control Your Inbox
管理你的邮箱

邮件是别人把他们的首要目标强加在你生活中的最佳途径
使用321-0原则管理你的邮箱：每天查看三次，每次21分钟查看回复所有邮件，目标是没有一封未读邮件 
Use the “**321-Zero**” system to keep email in its place: 
Three times a day, spend 21 minutes reviewing your messages. Your goal is an inbox with no new mail.

### 8. Schedule and Attend Meetings as a Last Resort
安排和参加会议作为最后的办法

Eliminating formal meetings can save everyone wasted time. Don’t set up or go to meetings unless “all other forms of communication won’t work.” Many entrepreneurs use a brief daily huddle as a more efficient, informative and unifying way to get their team moving.

### 9. Say No to Everything that Doesn’t Support Your Immediate Goals
对与你近期目标无关的事说不

Very successful people say no to almost everything.They realise that each commitment of their time may result in the loss of other opportunities. They protect their most valuable asset, time, from any request that doesn’t further their long-term priorities.

### 10. Follow the “Powerful Pareto Principle ”
遵循二八定律
20％的工作带来80％的产出。
The Pareto principle holds that 20% of your effort accounts for 80% of your results. 

使用二八定律来确定那些能带来80%产出需要做的20%的投入。
Use this principle to identify the 20% of your activities that will provide 80% of the reward for your efforts.


### 11. Focus on “Your Unique Strengths and Passions”
专注于“你独特的优势和激情”
A CEO who regularly delegates to trustworthy employees gains more energy and productivity and suffers less stress. Outsourcing easier chores frees up time and mental energy to concentrate on meaningful goals and high return projects.

“People who actively look for things to delegate report higher levels of productivity, happiness and energy.”

### 12. “Batch Your Work with Recurring Themes”
用重复的主题批量处理工作
Innovative entrepreneurs assign themes to their office days so their employees can concentrate on one specific type of work. Scheduled weekly and monthly themes can include “meeting” days for one-on-one discussions, team gatherings or group training seminars. Other themes include “*focus days*” to concentrate on certain crucial tasks and “*buffer days*” for catching up.

### 13. If You Can Do a Task in “Less Than Five Minute, Do It Immediately”
能在五分钟内完成的任务，立即执行

Top achievers seek immediate return on their time. To expedite incoming work, they enforce a “touch it once” principle:
立即处理电子邮件
**Handle email immediately** – Delegate as much of it as you can. Complete instantly anything you can handle in just a few minutes. If you can’t resolve an email request quickly, add it to your calendar.

按需更新你的日程
**Update your calendar as needed** – Move time-consuming tasks from email to your calendar as a reminder to act on them as soon as possible. Create weekly time blocks to deal with routine tasks, such as paying bills.

持续清理物件
**Constantly clear clutter** – Be mindful of time wasted searching for mislaid items. Maintain order in your surroundings. A messy environment can cause stress.

### 14. Routinely Use Early Mornings to “Strengthen Your Mind, Body and Spirit”
利用好清晨时分
大多数企业家都通过固定的晨间活动，以恢复精力和体力。
Most entrepreneurs embrace a morning routine to re-energize physically and mentally. They recharge with plenty of water, healthy food and exercise.

### 15. Productivity Is About Energy and Focus, Not Time
效率源于精力和注意力，而非时间。

Hard workers make room in their schedules for relaxation. Spending more time on work doesn’t guarantee more or better results. Maintaining maximum energy levels and working in short spurts aids productivity. **Successful people build the energy and focus to make each minute count**.